RHINO CONVERTER — SIGNED GITHUB UPDATES

ONE-TIME PUBLISHER SETUP
Public-key-only setup (recommended when a signing key is managed elsewhere):
  python release_tools.py configure-public --repository OWNER/REPOSITORY --public-key BASE64_PUBLIC_KEY
This writes only public configuration and does not read or create a private key.
Use the real repository and a base64-encoded 32-byte Ed25519 public key.
Then run before tagging:
  python release_tools.py validate --repository OWNER/REPOSITORY --tag v0.6.0
The preflight rejects invalid keys, repository mismatches and version mismatches.
Changing an already pinned key or repository requires a migration plan.
The configure command below is an optional publisher key-generation workflow;
do not run it when you only intend to prepare public configuration.

1. Create a GitHub repository for this app. This first updater uses public
   release downloads, so use a public repository without office CAD files.
   No GitHub tokens are embedded in the app. Private release authentication
   has not been implemented.
2. On your build computer, close the converter and extract this source update
   over the existing folder, keeping .venv. Run Configure-Updates.bat on Windows
   or Configure-Updates-Mac.command on Mac. Enter your GitHub owner/repository.
   The script migrates dependencies, creates a signing key OUTSIDE the project,
   and writes only the repository name and PUBLIC key to update-config.json.
3. Back up the private signing-key.txt file securely. Never commit it or share
   it with coworkers. App builds do not include this private key.
4. In GitHub Settings > Environments, create an environment named release.
   Add the contents of the private file as its UPDATE_SIGNING_KEY secret.
   Restrict the environment to release tags and require a trusted reviewer.
   Protect the main branch, release tags, and changes to the release workflow.
5. Commit the CONTENTS of the rhino-converter folder at the repository root,
   including .github, update-config.json and VERSION.txt. Exclude .venv, build,
   dist, private keys, and office models. The supplied .gitignore covers common
   build outputs and private-key extensions.
6. Push a version tag matching VERSION.txt, currently v0.6.0. GitHub Actions
   builds Windows setup plus Apple Silicon/Intel Mac packages, runs checks,
   and pauses at the protected release environment. After approval it signs
   metadata and publishes the complete release. The reviewer should review
   the code and packages before authorizing access to the signing secret.
7. Install and test this first release on both platforms. Coworkers need this
   updater-containing version installed once before future in-app updates work.

FUTURE RELEASES
For a new version, Actions > Start release > Run workflow on main validates
VERSION.txt and creates its tag, then starts the installer workflow on that tag.
This convenience workflow never reads the private signing secret. It refuses
existing tags. To retry a failed existing tag, rerun its failed build jobs or
run Build signed office release directly on that version tag.
Update the source and increase VERSION.txt, for example to 0.6.1. Commit and
push the matching v0.6.1 tag. The workflow builds packages and publishes only
after all matrix builds succeed and the release environment permits signing.
The build fails if the dependency audit fails; advisories are not ignored.

COWORKER EXPERIENCE
The app checks GitHub in the background when it opens. It also has an Updates
menu for Check for updates, Download update, Install update, and Cancel download.
After download, the file must match the signed release size and SHA-256 hash.
Installation is blocked while conversion or a review is active. On Windows,
the helper waits for the app to exit, runs the per-user setup, then reopens it.
On a packaged Mac app, the helper verifies the signature again, validates the
archive, checks its code signature, waits for the app to exit, replaces the
bundle and reopens it. It keeps the previous app as a rollback copy beside it.
The Mac user needs write access to the containing Applications directory.
Source-mode Windows updates install the packaged app; they do not rewrite
the source checkout. Mac automatic installation requires a packaged .app.

FAILURE BEHAVIOR
Missing configuration, unavailable GitHub, invalid signatures, altered hashes,
unexpected assets, unsupported platforms and older versions never trigger an
installation. Failed checks do not stop conversion. A Mac replacement or
restart failure restores the previous bundle. A Windows installer failure
leaves an install-error.txt next to the downloaded package; Windows installer
rollback after a partial setup failure has not been implemented.

TRUST AND LIMITS
Updates trust the public key bundled in the installed app, not arbitrary release
metadata. Signing-key replacement is refused by the configuration tool; a key
rotation needs a deliberate migration for existing installs. The publisher's
signing key and repository access must be protected. Compromise of the signing
key or a trusted release workflow defeats this trust model.
Ed25519 update signatures do not replace Windows Authenticode or Apple Developer
ID signing/notarization. IT signing is still needed for smooth OS distribution.
Native Windows/Mac update installation needs testing before office rollout.
The public repository is https://github.com/ljmcglinch/rhino-converter .
Its release environment requires approval by ljmcglinch, disallows admin bypass,
and accepts only version tags matching v*.*.*. Self-review is allowed because
the repository currently has one publisher; this is not an independent review.
The private key is kept outside the project in a Windows account-restricted
folder. Do not paste it into chat, source files, issues or workflow logs.
Existing 0.5.x installers have blank updater configuration: install a configured
0.6.0 package once to enable future verified in-app updates. See GitHub Actions
and Releases for current build and publication status.
